# permatrust

## Getting started

```sh
chmod +x scripts/build-shared.sh
dfx start --clean
dfx nns import
npm run build:shared
dfx deploy
npm start
```

## Top up

```sh
dfx nns install --ledger-accounts $(dfx ledger account-id)
# Now navigate to the NNS page and copy the account id
dfx ledger transfer ACCOUNT_ID_NNS_PAGE --memo 12345 --amount 1337
```

## Requirements

- brew
- Rust
- npm
- dfx

```sh
dfx extension install nns
```

## Rust development tip

- Edit .did file to replicate an existing canister method
- run `npm run build:shared`
- See newly generated rust files in src/shared

## Convert .did value to json

Copy the .did value from a Canister UI response or whatever. Save it in a file like `canisterMethod.mock.did`. Then run the following command to convert it to json.

```sh
# cargo install idl2json_cli
cat canisterMethod.mock.did | idl2json | tee canisterMethod.mock.json
```

## Icons

We're using `@sly-cli/cly` for adding icons and `svg-icons-cli` to build the SVG's
into a sprite. As of date Sly seems somewhat buggy as it hangs after an add. But
you can just ctrl+c the session as it does add the file.

```sh
npm run icons:add # ctrl+c to close
npm run build:icons
```

This adds an importable Icon component to /components/ui

# Default docs

Welcome to your new pt project and to the internet computer development community. By default, creating a new project adds this README and some template files to your project directory. You can edit these template files to customize your project and to include your own code to speed up the development cycle.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with pt, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Rust Canister Development Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/backend/rust/)
- [ic-cdk](https://docs.rs/ic-cdk)
- [ic-cdk-macros](https://docs.rs/ic-cdk-macros)
- [Candid Introduction](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/backend/candid/)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd pt/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
